# Code to solve equations and produce figures in "Tipping-point in ice-sheet grounding-zone melting due to ocean water intrusion" by Bradley and Hewitt. 

This code is written in MATLAB. It does not require any extra MATLAB packages to be installed. It was developed with MATLAB R2022a, but should work with any newer version of MATLAB (correct as of March 2024).

Figures 2-4 of the main text and supplementary figures 2-10 can be generated by downloading the repository and running the appropriate ("make_figureX.m" or "make_supfigX.m") file. Figures are produced by loading data contained in the ./data-for-figures folder, making it quick and easy to reproduce the figures in the paper. The .mat files contained in the ./data-for-figures folder can be produced by running the appropriate generate data script ("generate_data_figureX.m"). Note that these scripts take a long time to run, particularly those sampling large parts of parameter space (i.e. figure 4).

Processed data for individual Antarctic ice shelves are contained in the ./data-for-figures/shelves folder. To create these files, you must first download the circum Antarctic data, held at https://zenodo.org/records/10091326. You should store this file in the ./data-for-figures folder.

Functions used to solve both the time-dependent and steady forms of the channel equations are contained in the ./functions folder. It is essential that this folder is on your MATLAB path when running the "generate_data_figureX.m" scripts (this should happen automatically, but will likely be the first problem ran into if the scripts fail to run).

We are more than happy to help with anybody with any problems with this code, please get in touch (aleey [at] bas [dot] ac [dot] uk) or raise an issue.


